                                                                                   A Jekyll Blog in 15 Minutes


   The date and categories are two other variables included in the YFM. They
are completely optional and strangely unused by the structure and templates

created by default using the Jekyll initializer. They do provide additional con-
text to the post, but are only stored in the Markdown file and not included in-
side the generated content itself. The categories list is often used to generate an

index file of categories with a list of each post included in a category. If you
come from a Wordpress background, you’ll likely have used categories. These

are generated dynamically from the MySQL database each time you request a
list of them, but in Jekyll this file is staticly generated. If you wanted something

more dynamic, you could imagine generating a JSON file with these categories
and files, and then building a JavaScript widget which requests this file and

then does something more interactive on the client side. Jekyll can take any
template file and convert it to JSON (or any other format) — you are not limited
to just generating HTML files.

   YFM is completely optional. A post or page can be rendered into your Jekyll
site without any YFM inside it. Without YFM, your page is rendered using the de-

faults for those variables, so make sure the default template, at the very least, is
what you expect will wrap around all pages left with unspecified layouts.

   One important default variable for YFM is the published variable. This vari-
able is set to true by default. This means that if you create a file in your Jekyll

repository and do not manually specify the published setting, it will be publish-
ed automatically. If you set the variable to false then the post will not be pub-
lished. With private repositories you can keep the contents of draft posts entire-

ly private until writing has completed by making sure published is set to false.
Unfortunately, not all tools that help you create Jekyll Markdown files remem-

ber to set the published variable explicitly inside of YFM, so make sure you
check before committing the file to your repository if there is something you

don’t yet want published.


Jekyll markup


Going past the YFM, we can start to see the structure of Markdown files. Mark-
down files can be, at their simplest, just textual information without any for-

matting characters. In fact, if your layout files are well done, you can definitely
create great blog posts without any fancing formatting, just pure textual con-

tent.
   But, with a few small Markdown additions, you can really make posts shine.
One of the first Markdown components we notice is the backtick character,

which is used to wrap small spans of code (or code-ish information, like file-
names in this case). As you use more and more Markdown, you’ll find Mark-

down to be insidiously clever in the way it provides formatting characters





                                                                                              125