CHAPTER 7: Ruby and Jekyll


                        that recognizes we only need to be dynamic when new content is created and
                        not when a new visitor requests the same page as the previous visitor. This is
                        unfortunately how many sites work right now, resulting in the same page being

                        regenerated over and over, and has led to overwrought solutions like page
                        caching which has layered more lipstick on the pig. By acknowledging these

                        facts, there is a massive reduction in complexity of Jekyll sites and with it, im-
                        mense freedom. It may feel like you have traveled back in time, because when

                        you look at a site built by Jekyll, you are looking at a set of static files, backed
                        by nothing more complex than the same web server technologies available be-
                        fore the dot com bust of 2000.



                        The Harmless Brew that Spawned Jekyll


                        Though you won’t see it in the documentation, the popularity of Jekyll is due in
                        large part to the desire of bloggers, especially very technical ones, wanting a

                        blogging tool option other than Wordpress. For many bloggers, Wordpress is a
                        poor choice of blogging tools. Of course, there is always language snobbery in

                        any programming community, but Wordpress is built on a language, PHP, which
                        is widely reviled by developers from various language communities. Because

                        PHP is more accessible language than other languages, the choice of PHP has
                        fostered a large community of plugin developers. Unfortunately, this communi-
                        ty is fractured, and the plugins which arise from it are at best poorly document-

                        ed and poorly integrated, and at worst, poorly designed and buggy. While
                        Wordpress does often have a plugin for anything you need, the problem it sol-

                        ves often creates more problems in the long term when scalability or database
                        optimization or security, for example, become concerns.
                           Jekyll is interesting because of the components which are not present when

                        compared against Wordpress. Jekyll does not require a database. Jekyll does
                        not require you know how to write in HTML. While Wordpress ostensibly adver-

                        tises itself as a tool which can be used without knowledge of these technolo-
                        gies, talk to those of us who have struggled with recovery of a mangled data-

                        base after installation of a new Wordpress plugin, or resolving scalability issues
                        on a large Wordpress site, or analyzing and fixing broken HTML produced by the
                        Wordpress editor. We’ll tell you that, when using Wordpress, you don’t need to

                        know about MySQL or HTML at all, because it is already too late by then to fix
                        whatever problem you are facing.

                           Jekyll responds to these concerns in a really elegant way. Instead of author-
                        ing in HTML, you author in a simple and readable language called Markdown,

                        which the Jekyll engine converts automatically to HTML for you. Instead of stor-
                        ing posts and other data inside a MySQL database, you use the filesystem to
                        store posts and layouts and then regenerate the entire site when infrequent





        118