CHAPTER 6: DotNet and the Commit Status API


                        this is a newer version of MonoDevelop with more capabilities, and will work

                        just as well for these examples.
                           There are no Nancy-specific project templates for these IDEs, so you’ll just

                        start with an empty web project. Go to “File>New>Solution…”, and choose
                        “ASP.NET>Empty ASP.NET Project” from the template chooser, as shown in

                        Figure 6-3.



 FIGURE 6-3

 Creating an empty

 ASP.NET application
 in Xamarin Studio

























                           The rest of the wizard steps are about the project name and location; feel
                        free to name and locate this project however you like.

                           Next, update the target framework setting. Control- or right-click on the
                        node in the solution explorer that corresponds with your project (not your solu-

                        tion), and select “Options” from the menu. Under “Build>General,” set the Tar-
                        get Framework to “Mono / .NET 4.5” (or later) and click OK.

                           Lastly, install the Nancy and Octokit NuGet packages. Go to “Project>Add
                        NuGet Packages…” in the menu to open the package manager. Search for Nan-

                        cy, check the box next to it, search for Octokit, check its box, and click “Add
                        Packages” at the bottom right. Once the process is complete, your project is

                        ready for our example code. To run it under the debugger, go to “Run>Start De-
                        bugging…,” or type ⌘-Enter. Xamarin will start the server and open a browser

                        window to http://127.0.0.1:80080 (possibly with a different port), which at this
                        point will just show the default “404 Not Found” page.




        108