CHAPTER 8: Android and the Git Data API


                           $ cd $BLOG_NAME
                           $ hub create
                           $ git push -u origin master


                           These commands install the correct libraries for using Jekyll (and one for our
                        tests as well), generate a new blog using the jekyll command line tool, and then

                        create a blog on GitHub with those files. On the second line we specify the
                        name of the blog; you are welcome to change this to any name you’d like, just

                        make sure the tests match the name.


                             When you have finished running these commands, you should close the
                             terminal window. There are other commands later in this chapter which
                             should occur in a fresh directory and as such it is best not to run those

                             commands from within the same directory where you created your jekyll
                             blog. You’ve pushed all those files into GitHub, so you could safely delete
                             the local repository in this directory.



                        Android Development Tools


                        If you don’t have a physical Android device, don’t fret. You can follow along
                        with this chapter without having an actual Android device by doing develop-

                        ment and testing on a virtual device.


                        Installing the Java SDK


                        Unfortunately there is no simple shell command to install Java in the same way

                        as there is for Ruby and NodeJS using RVM or NVM. Oracle controls the Java
                        language and distribution of official SDKs, and they restrict access to down-
                        loads other than from java.oracle.com. Java is freely available, but you need to

                        visit java.oracle.com and find the correct download for your needs. Android
                        works with either the 1.6 or 1.7 versions of Java.



                        Installing the Android SDK


                        Creating AVDs for Development


                        Once you have installed the SDK, you can create a virtual device called an AVD
                        (Android Virtual Device). AVDs are very useful because you can see any screen

                        resolution, any SDK version, and can quickly delete and reset the devices. In ad-
                        dition, AVDs are created “rooted” by default, which allows you to view the con-

                        tents of all files, a capability which is not available on non-rooted devices. This
                        makes debugging AVDs much easier because, for example, you can inspect




        162