                                                                                     Scraping Sites into Jekyll


   The Tumblr import plugin has a few interesting options.

   Write out HTML; if you prefer to use Markdown use   md .


   This importer will grab images if you provide a true value.


   Wrap code blocks (indented 4 spaces) in a Liquid “highlight” tag if this is set
   to true.


   Write pages that redirect from the old Tumblr paths to the new Jekyll paths
   using this configuration option.


   Exporting from Tumblr is considerably easier than Wordpress. The Tumblr
exporter scrapes all public posts from the blog, and then converts to a Jekyll
compatible post format.

   We’ve seen how we can use the importers available on import.jekyllrb.com
to import. What if we have a non-standard site that we need to import?



Scraping Sites into Jekyll


If you are stuck with a site that does not fit any of the standard importers, you
could write your own importer by perusing the source of the Jekyll importers

on GitHub (http://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-import). This is probably the right
way to build an importer if you plan on letting others use it, as it will extend

several jekyll importer classes already available to make importing standard for
other contributors. Learning all the existing methods and reading through the

dozens of samples can be a lot of work, however; another option is just to write
out our files respecting the very simple format required by Jekyll. As we are pro-
grammers in the true sense of the word we embrace and accept our laziness

and choose the second route. Let’s write some code to scrape and generate a
Jekyll site.

   Almost fifteen years ago while traveling in Brazil I grew increasingly frustra-
ted with the guide books I used. It seemed like every time I went to a restaurant
recommended by a guidebook I left the restaurant thinking “well, either they

paid for that review or the review was written several years ago when this res-
taurant had a different owner.” To address this discrepancy between reviews

and realities, I built a site called ByTravelers.com. The idea was that travelers
could use ByTravelers to record their experiences and easily share their experi-

ences with their friends and families (replacing the long emails they used to
send) and that that information would then become an authentication source
of information about good and bad travel experiences.






                                                                                               133