                                                                    The Harmless Brew that Spawned Jekyll


changes are made. And, to faciliate interaction, you use client side JavaScript
plugins instead of pushing that interaction into your database. Jekyll has found
a sweet spot with a simple technology set that makes your life easier and

makes beautiful blogs and simple web sites. And, the biggest benefit of doing
things the “Jekyll” way is that all dependencies can sit within a repository, and

this means your entire site can be hosted on GitHub.


(Less Than) Evil Scientist Parents


Like many of the open source technologies in heavy usage at GitHub, jekyll was
originally developed by Tom Preson Warner, one of the co-founders of GitHub,

and Nick Quaranto, of 37 Signals, though there are now thousands of contribu-
tors to the Jekyll codebase. Like many open source projects, the strength of the
tool comes not from the brilliance of the original developers or the brilliance of

the idea, but the way that those original developers cultivated community and
involvement among the users of the tool.



Operating Jekyll Locally


To really use jekyll, you’ll need thjekyll  gem. As we explain in the ???, we
could install a ruby gem using this command:


   $ gem install jekyll

   There are two issues with doing installation this way. The first is that any

commands we run inside the command line are lost to us and the world (other
than in our private shell history file). The second is that if we are going to pub-
lish any of our sites to GitHub, we will want to make sure we are matching the

exact versions of Jekyll and its dependencies so that a site that works on our
local laptop also works when published into GitHub. If you don’t take care of

this, you’ll occasionally get an email like this from GitHub:

    The page build failed with the following error:


    page build failed

    For information on troubleshooting Jekyll see
    https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages#troubleshooting

    If you have any questions please contact GitHub Support.

   The fix for these two issues is a simple one. You’ve probably seen other

chapters using a Gemfile   to install ruby libraries. Instead of using a manual
command like   bundle  to install from the command line, let’s put this depend-




                                                                                          119