CHAPTER 6: DotNet and the Commit Status API


                        Frank Sinatra’s daughter, Nancy). It’s very capable, but also very succinct, as
                        you’ll see.
                           We also won’t be directly implementing access to the GitHub API, because

                        GitHub provides a CLR library for that. It’s called octokit.net, and it does all the
                        right things with regard to asynchrony and type safety. This is the same library

                        used by the GitHub client for Windows, so it’ll definitely do the job for our little
                        application. It is, however, the source of a constraint on how we set up our ex-

                        ample project: it requires a rather new version of the CLR (4.5) in order to func-
                        tion. If you want some guidance on how to avoid this pitfall and follow along,
                        continue reading the next section. If you’ve worked with Nancy before, and

                        have installed NuGet packages in the past, you might be able to skip to the sec-
                        tion labeled “First steps”.



                        Following along

                        If you’d like to follow along with the code examples, here’s how to set up a de-

                        velopment environment with all the necessary elements. The process is differ-
                        ent on Windows (using Visual Studio) and any other platforms (using Xamarin

                        tools).


                        VISUAL STUDIO

                        If you’re running Windows, you’ll want to visit https://www.visualstudio.com/

                        and download the Community edition of Visual Studio. The installer will
                        present you with lots of options; for this example, we’ll only need the “web de-
                        veloper” components, but feel free to check all the boxes that look interesting

                        to you. (If you have access to a higher tier of Visual Studio, or already have it
                        installed with the web-development packages, you’re all set.)

                           In order to make things just a little smoother, you’ll want to install a plugin:
                        the Nancy project templates. Visit https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.micro-

                        soft.com/ and search for “nancy.templates”. As of this writing, there appears to
                        be some difficulty with file formats, so when you download it, it comes as a ZIP
                        file. If this has been resolved by the time you’re reading this, simply double-

                        click the file to install the templates; if not, you’ll have to rename it to have
                        a .vsix  extension first.

                           The next step is to create a new project using one of the newly-installed tem-
                        plates. Go to “File>New Project…” and select “Visual C#>Web>Nancy Applica-

                        tion with ASP.NET Hosting” from the template list (as shown in Figure 6-2.
                        Make sure the path and name settings at the bottom are to your liking, and
                        click OK.







        106