CHAPTER 2: Introduction



                            If you are using two factor authentication, this flow requires additional
                        steps, all of which are documented within the ???.

                            To use this token, you specify the token inside an authorization header. It is a
                        little bit early to talk about exactly how to interact with the API, but the syntax

                        in cURL looks like the following. For a full flow, check out the Hubot chapter
                        which shows how to use cURL with an oAuth token.


                            $ curl -H "Authorization: token abcdef87654321" ...


                            Scopes clarify how a service or application will use data inside the GitHub
                        API. This makes it easy to audit how you are using the information if this was a

                        token issued for your own personal use. But, most importantly, this provides
                        valuable clarity and protection for those times when a third party application

                        wants to access your information: you can be assured the application is limited
                        in what data it can access, and you can revoke access easily.


                        SCOPE LIMITATIONS


                        There is one major limitation of scopes to be aware of: you cannot do fine-

                        grained access to certain repositories only. If you provide access to any of your
                        private repositories, you are providing access to all repositories.

                            It is likely that GitHub will change the way scopes work and address some of
                        these issues. The great thing about the way oAuth works is that to support

                        these changes you will simply need to request a new token with the scope
                        modified, but otherwise, the application authentication flow will be unchaged.


                              Be very careful about the scopes you request when building a service or

                              application. Users are (rightly) paranoid about the data they are handing
                              over to you, and will evaluate your application based on the scopes re-
                              quested. If they don’t think you need that scope, be sure to remove it
                              from the list you provide to GitHub when authorizing and consider esca-

                              lation to a higher scope after you have developed some trust with your
                              users.



                        SCOPE ESCALATION


                        You can ask for scope at one point which is very limited, and then later ask for a
                        greater scope. For example, when a user first accesses your application, you

                        could only get the user scope to create a user object inside your service, and
                        only when your application needs repository information for a user, then re-

                        quest to escalate privileges. At this point the user will need to approve or disap-
                        prove your request, but asking for everything up front (before you have a rela-

                        tionship with the user) often results in a user abandoning the login.




        28