CHAPTER 2: Introduction


                        authentication supported by the   -u flag in curl. HTTP Basic Authentication is
                        synonymous with username and password authentication.


                           $ curl -u xrd https://api.github.com/rate_limit
                           Enter host password for user 'xrd': xxxxxxxx
                           {

                             "rate": {
                               "limit": 5000,
                               "remaining": 4995,
                               "reset": 1376251941

                             }
                           }

                           This cURL command, authenticates into the GitHub API and then retrieves

                        information about our own specific rate limits for our user account, protected
                        information only available as a logged in user.


                        BENEFITS OF USERNAME AUTHENTICATION


                        Almost any client library you use will support HTTP Basic authentication. All the
                        GitHub API clients we looked at support username and passwords. And, writing

                        your own specific client is easy as this is a core feature of the HTTP standard, so
                        if you use any standard HTTP library when building your own client, you will be

                        able to access content inside the GitHub API.


                        DOWNSIDES TO USERNAME AUTHENTICATION

                        There are many reasons why username and password authentication is the

                        wrong way to manage your GitHub API access.

                            • HTTP Basic is an old protocol which never anticipated the granularity of
                              web services. It is not possible to specify only certain features of a web

                              service if you ask users to authenticate with username/passwords.

                            • If you use a username and password to access GitHub API content from
                              your cell phone, and then access API content from your laptop, you have
                              no way to block access to one without blocking the other.

                            • HTTP Basic authentication does not support extensions to the authenti-

                              cation flow. Many modern services now support two-factor authentica-
                              tion and there is no way to inject this into the process without changing

                              the HTTP clients (web browsers, for example) or at least the flow they ex-
                              pect (making the browser repeat the request).

                           All of these problems are solved (or at least supported) with oAuth flows. For

                        these reasons, there are very few reasons to use username and passwords. If




        26