CHAPTER 9: JavaScript and the Git Data API



 FIGURE 9-6




















                           As you can see, we can see a clear diff of the changes our contributor made:
                        they added an annotation that tells us “no turtles allowed”. We might want to

                        consider a different location the next time we have a date with Morla. The diff is
                        clear in that the green information is easy to read, which is a benefit we get

                        when we use the    JSON.stringify     function with the third parameter set to
                        something other than undefined. Unortunately, the first line is only different
                        because we added a comma to it, but this is still a very readable diff.



                        A SAFE LOGIN IMPLEMENTATION

                        If I saw this app in the wild and knew nothing about the authors, I would never

                        use it to submit data. The app asks for my GitHub username and password. Ask-
                        ing for my username and password implicitly asks me to trust the authors of
                        this application. Trust in this case means that I trust them to not maliciously

                        use my credentials for nefarious purposes, and also asks me to trust that they
                        are not doing something stupid which would allow an attacker to insert them-

                        selves into the middle of the authentication process and steal my crendentials.
                        It seems like every day we hear of a break-in at a major internet service; I want

                        to believe that most people are out to do good in the world, so I am less wor-
                        ried about the provider of such a service maliciously stealing my crendentials,

                        but I am worried about a script kiddie attacking the service for fun and stealing
                        my credentials. At any rate, I would never use a service which requires me to
                        give up my username and password to another service, especially one which is

                        as important as GitHub is to me.
                           So, let’s use oAuth instead and resolve these problems.

                           If we use oAuth, we enter our credentials directly into GitHub. We can take
                        advantage of 2-factor authentication. Once we have entered our credentials,




        220