                                                                                               Our Blueprint


til you find the one you want. If there is a developer service your team uses,
odds are there is a Hubot plugin already available for it. By searching NPM, you
could, for example, find plugins for adding or searching tickets in JIRA, Asana

and Pivotal Tracker or ZenDesk, all popular ticket tracking systems used by
thousands of developer teams worldwide.

   Though you can likely find a plugin to support whatever developer service
you search for on npmjs, it might not be perfectly suited to your workflow. So,

let’s build our own Hubot extension and get exactly what we want for our team
of developers.



Our Blueprint


We are going to build an extension to Hubot. When we are done, Hubot will be
transformed into a robot that..

    • listens for pull request events from GitHub by subscribing to notifications

      using the GitHub Activities API
    • invites people in the chat room to comment on those pull requests

    • guarantees that communication between it and GitHub is securely deliv-

      ered (with a caveat)
    • retrieves vital information from an external service (the Slack.com API)

    • has functionality fully described by automated tests.

    • allows easy simulation of inputs and outputs which map to the inputs
      and outputs it gets from APIs and services.

    • runs with ease host on a major Paas (Heroku)

   Hubot provides the skeleton for our chat robot. We’ll add the above func-

tionality to Hubot and see how easy it is to combine these features into a coher-
ent whole that solves a real problem.
   Just so we are clear about the differences between a vanilla Hubot and our

extended Hubot following the above blueprint, let’s give it a name: Probot.
From now on, we will speak about unmodified Hubots by calling them Hubot,

while we will call our amplified Hubot with PR delegation super powers the
name “Probot.”


Considerations and Limitations


If you want stability with your Hubot, you need to host it on a server. Hubot is

written in NodeJS and requires a hosting service that supports NodeJS. Our Hu-
bot needs to sit on a public IP address (not inside the firewall) because we re-
ceive notifications from GitHub. It is not strictly required that you host Hubot




                                                                                               237