CHAPTER 9: JavaScript and the Git Data API


                          ng-repeat   is an AngularJS directive which iterates over an array of items.

                          Here we use it to iterate over the items in oportland.json    file and insert
                          a snippet of HTML with our data interpolated from each item in the iteration.


                          We are now using Bootstrap to establish structure in our HTML. The     col-

                          md-6  class tells Bootstrap to build a column sized at 50% of our 12 column
                          layout. We setup two adjacent columns this way. And, if we are inside a mo-
                          bile device, it properly stacks these columns.


                          Notice how we bind to data from the JSON file.


                       ERRORS ALREADY?


                       If you run this in your browser, you will not see the shops for our city displayed.
                       Something is broken, so let’s investigate. I recommend using the Chrome

                       browser to debug this, but you can use any browser and set of developer tools
                       you like. For Chrome, right clicking on the page anywhere and selecting “In-
                       spect Element” at the bottom (or by the keyboard shortcut “F12” or “Ctrl + Shift

                       + I” on Windows or Linux or “Cmd + Opt + I” on Mac ) will bring up the developer
                       console. Then select the console window. Refresh the browser window, and

                       you’ll see this in the console:

                          Uncaught TypeError: Cannot call method 'select' of undefined


                          If you click on the link to the right for github.js, you’ll see this.



 FIGURE 9-3


















                          You see at the point of error that we are callingselect  on the tree. Select
                       appears to be a method defined on an underscore character. If you use Java-




        208