                    Gists and the Gist API                          3








GitHub revolutionized software development by responding to a deep desire to
share information. But calling it just “sharing” does a disservice to the tools Git-
Hub provides: these tools remove barriers to communication and streamline
workflows and these tools also arose at exactly the moment when more and
more companies permitted and more and more complementary technologies
appeared to allow an emerging remote workforce. Gists service part of this

need: they permit intimate code sharing and reuse, refactoring and play in a
way not served by heavyweight tools predating it.
  Gists are easy to create and the interface is stripped down to the barest level.
You add a snippet of code and then share the URL. Gists autodetect the lan-
guage in most cases and format it correctly. Gists can be used in more powerful
ways than might appear at first glance and this chapter will explore other ways
to share code and amplify your team.

  To create a gist, go to gist.github.com and enter in any textual data. You then
choose public or secret access and create the gist. After creating the gist, you
receive a shareable URL with the code. If the type of textual data is specified,
usually the coding language type, then the code will be formatted in a pretty
way for better readability. If you need to share a small bit of code, or write
something and discuss it, gists are a great tool.

  There are other services that do this: pastebin was the first, and there are
many others that offer variances on code sharing. But gists by GitHub are not
simply a pasting service. Gists are first class repositories, forkable, editable and
expansive. We’ll go over the basics of what gists are, and how to create them,
and then show how they allow you to share code that is also a live application.


Gists are repositories


Every gist created is a tiny repository. You can update gists and see the history
usinggit log. You can download gists, hack on the reposigit pushd
them back into the repository on gist.github.com (which will republish them



                                                                           41