CHAPTER 3: Gists and the Gist API


                        onto the publicly facing web page). And, you can “fork” gists, just like any other
                        repository.

                           You are allowed to branch within gist repositories; however, branches are
                        not displayed inside of gist.github.com. But, if you need the benefits of branch-
                        ing when using GitHub gists you can branch normally inside a repository and

                        keep the branch information on the upstream repository after you push it up.
                           You can have an unlimited number of public and secret gists. Instead of cre-

                        ating a new private repository from your limited amount in a paid GitHub ac-
                        count, you can take a tiny bit of code and make a secret gist, sharing this with

                        others through a URL instead of the more onerous process of adding collabora-
                        tors to a regular repository. Or, you can make a gist public, and share that URL

                        to mailing lists or anywhere you need public feedback.


                             As there are two types of gists (public and secret), it is important the un-
                             derstand the differences between them. Public gists are searchable. Se-
                             cret gists are not searchable, but they are accessible to anyone who
                             knows the URL. Don’t post any code to gist which you need to keep secret
                             as once you put it there, it is only as safe as the URL is secret.



                           Most people share gists through the URL. But, you can embed gists inside of
                        other contexts (like blogs) and get a simple and pretty snippet of code.


                        Embedding Gists Inside HTML


                        To embed inside of an HTML page look for the “Embed this gist” box to the left

                        of a gist. Copy the code listed there (which will look something like <script
                        src="https://gist.github.com/xrd/8923697.js"></script>                     and

                        paste it into your HTML.
                           If you wish to include only a particular file from the Gist (if it contains multi-

                        ple files), then ad?file=hi.rb    to the end of the URL specified in the src at-
                        tribute.



                        Embedding Inside Jekyll blogs

                        Though we have not yet explained how Jekyll works (the GitHub blogging tool),

                        it seems valid to point out the ease in which you can publish gists into a blog if
                        that blog happens to be Jekyll hosted on GitHub.

                           Jekyll supports a fast shortcut code to embed a public gist inside of your Je-
                        kyll blog hosted on GitHub, or on any site built on the “github-pages” branch

                        mechanism (described in the Chapter 7 chapter). The shortcut         {% gist






        42