                                                                                      Building a Gollum Editor



     A word of caution when using the gollum command in server mode to
     edit files locally inside a web browser. If you start the gollum server from

     the command line you do have the capability to edit the files from any
     computer within the same network. In other words, you could find your
     IP address and use that address from your Chromebook or your tablet to

     view and edit your wiki. However, remember that the gollum server com-
     mand does not have an authentication system built into it, which means

     that gollum thinks anyone accessing the wiki is the same user that start-
     ed the gollum command. This is fine if you are in the other room editing

     on your tablet while gollum runs on your work laptop. However, the gol-
     lum server is not a good solution for offering a wiki up to many people
     within a subnet. If multiple people edit files, there is no way that gollum

     can track the different user contributions in the change log. This is not a
     problem when editing your Gollum wiki inside GitHub.com: the GitHub

     site knows who you are and properly assigns your changes to your user-
     name inside the change log.



   We’ve played a bit with the gollum command line tools. Let’s put these skills
to use and make our own special gollum tool.




Building a Gollum Editor


Once you understand Git repositories, you can see the power of Gollum as a wi-

ki format: as everything is built on Git, you can manage your wiki using all the
great tools that come with Git. We’ve explored how easy it is to edit Gollum wi-

kis: from within the command line, from the web browser, or from within Git-

Hub. However, there might be times when you need to provide an entirely cus-
tomized editing modality. As long as you write files into the repository in the

way the gollum libraries understand, you can write your own editing interface

to suit your own needs. Let’s experiment with this idea and build a new editing
interface for Gollum wikis.



     Gollum is a tool that provides flexibility by allowing local usage: this can
     be very handy when you are on a plane and don’t want to pay for Wi-Fi.

     However, at the time of this writing there is a bug where images are not
     displayed, so although you can fully edit files using the logollum com-

     mand, you will not be be able to view them when viewing your wiki on
     you local machine. To view image files correctly, publish them into Git-
     Hub.













                                                                                                 59