CHAPTER 4: Gollum


                       GOLLUM STRUCTURAL COMPONENTS


                       Gollum includes capabilities to add sidebars, headers, and footers. If you in-
                       clude a file calle_Sidebar.ext    inside your repository, you’ll see it as a side-

                       bar for every file rendered. Sidebars are automatically added to any file and any
                       file from subdirectories that do not have their own sidebar files. If you wanted

                       to add sidebars specific to a subdirectory, add another file in the subdirectory
                       and this file will override the top level sidebar file.


                       NO STYLING OR JAVASCRIPT


                       Finally, for security reasons, Gollum strips out all CSS and JavaScript from raw

                       markup files. You can include your own JavaScript or CSS file when running
                       Gollum locally using the --custom-css   or --custom-js    switches, but there is

                       no way to include these files on a Wiki when your Gollum wiki is hosted on Git-
                       Hub.

                          Now that we have investigated the structure and format of using Gollum wi-
                       kis, we can dig into the power tools that come with Gollum.



                       Moving Gollum to Your Laptop


                       Though many people edit Gollum wikis exclusively from within the GitHub on-
                       line editor, there is a real flexibility and power when hosting your wiki locally

                       and editing it from your laptop. To do this you need to install the command line
                       tools for Gollum.


                          $ gem install gollum


                          You will then see thegollum  command in your path.


                            There is a difference between thgollumcommand (what you run from
                            the command line) and the suite of technologies that make up Gollum as

                            a project. To differentiate between them, remember that we are talking
                            about the suite when the word is capitalized (“Gollum”), and the com-
                            mand line tool when the word is lowercased and fixed width fogol-
                            lum).



                          What additional options are opened up when running locally? Let’s take a
                       deeper look.









        56