CHAPTER 5: Python and the Search API



 FIGURE 5-2

 Login UI
















                           Once the user logs in, they’ll be shown a search box. Typing in a search query
                        and hitting enter will result in a scrollable list of search results, with titles and

                        the first line of the description. Clicking on a search result opens the issue in the
                        user’s browser.

                           That’s about it. This application only has two main screens from the user’s
                        point of view. It’s a simple, focused tool to solve a very tightly-defined problem,
                        so the code shouldn’t be too hard.



                        Python


                        Now that we know how the program should act, let’s decide how it should

                        work.
                           We’ll use Python for our implementation language, for several reasons. First,

                        because we haven’t yet seen it in this book, and we like to expose you to a wide
                        variety of languages. One of our goals is to help the reader explore technologies
                        they might not have seen before.

                           Secondly, there’s a library for building GUI applications that run without
                        modification on Mac OS X, Linux, and Windows. Surprisingly, this is fairly

                        unique feature among modern high-level programming languages. If you want
                        this capability elsewhere, you usually have to use a high-complexity frame-

                        work, a lower-level language like C++, or both.
                           Thirdly, this will help make it easy to distribute. Python has a package avail-
                        able which There exists a Python package which bundles an entire Python pro-

                        gram and all of its dependencies into a single file (.app  bundle on OS X). So
                        giving this program to a colleague is as easy as emailing her a ZIP file.

                           Let’s take a quick look at the libraries we’ll be using in our application’s
                        code. We’ll see them in action later on, but a quick overview will help you un-





        84