CHAPTER 5: Python and the Search API



                          We’re binding the click handler for this entire panel, but also the mouse-
                          enter and mouse-leave events, so we can make it behavior more like a link in

                          a browser.

                          Here’s how you open the default browser to a URL in Python.


                          Overall, WxPython isn’t so bad, once you get used to it. It lacks some facili-
                       ties of newer frameworks, but there’s nothing better for getting a basic cross-
                       platform UI out the door quickly.

                          That’s all of the code! If you’ve been following along, you can run this code
                       file and do issue searches. However, our use case has a non-technical user run-

                       nnig this; let’s see what can be done to make it easy for them.


                       Packaging


                       What we’re not going to do is require anyone to install Python 2.7 and a bunch

                       of packages. We’ll use PyInstaller to bundle our application into something
                       that’s easy to distribute and run.
                          Let’s assume you wrote all the code above into a file calsearch.py   , and

                       agithub.py   is sitting in the same directory. Here’s how to tell PyInstaller to
                       generate a single application for you:


                          $ pyinstaller -w search.py


                          That’s it! Th-w  flag tells PyInstaller to create a “windowed” build of your
                       application, rather than the default console build. On OS X, this generates a

                       search.app   application bundle, and on Windows this generates asearch.exe
                       file. You can take either of these to a computer with no Python installed, and
                       they’ll run perfectly.

                          That’s because PyInstaller has copied everything necessary for your pro-
                       gram to run, from the Python interpreter on up, inside that file. The one I just

                       generated is 67MB, which seems large for such a simple program, but that num-
                       ber is more reasonable when you consider what’s inside the package.



                       Summary


                       Whew! This chapter was quite a journey. Let’s take a breath, and look at what
                       we’ve learned.
                          The main bulk of the code in this chapter had to do with defining a graphical

                       interface. Code for this task is always pretty verbose, because of the sheer com-
                       plexity of the task. With WxPython in your tool belt, however, you can now write




       98