                                                                                             The Code


the constructor definition, we pull that callback out and store it for later. After-

ward, we just call the two other construction functions and return.
   create_controls    has more to it thanSearchFrame   ’s version, because this

panel has more controls. Every static-text, text-input, and button control gets
its own line of code. Thewx.TE_PROCESS_ENTER     style tells the library that we

want an event to be triggered if the user presses the enter key while the cursor
is inside that text box.
   The next block binds control events to method calls. Every event in WxPy-

thon will call the handler with a single argument, an object which contains in-
formation about the event. That means we can use the same event handler for

any number of different kinds of events, so we do – thENTER  handlers for both
text boxes and theBUTTON  handler for the button all go throughself.do_log-

in .
   do_layout   uses adifferent kind of sizer –GridBagSizer   . Again, the topic

of sizers is way outside the scope of this chapter, but just know that this kind
arranges things in a grid, and you can allow some of the rows or columns to
stretch to fill the container. Here we drop all of the controls into their positions

with the pos=(r,c)   notation (here “rows” come first, which isn’t like most co-
ordinate systems), and cause one control to span two columns with the    span

parameter. The  flags and  border  parameters mostly mean the same thins as
before, and the AddGrowableCol    function tells the layout engine which parts

of the grid should be allowed to stretch.
   Then we do something curious: we put the  GridBagSizer    into another sizer.

Sizer nesting is a powerful feature, and allows almost any window layout to be
possible — although perhaps not easy or simple. The vertical box sizer also con-

tains some bare tuples; this special form is called “adding a spacer.” In this case,
we sandwich the sizer with all the controls between two spacers with different
weights, making it float about a third of the way down the window. The effect is

like Figure 5-3.





















                                                                                           93