CHAPTER 1: Preface


                        you have not used web APIs extensively, but have experience using other types

                        of APIs, this is good company.


                        What You Will Learn


                        Much of the book focuses on the technical capabilities exposed by GitHub and

                        the powerful GitHub API. Perhaps you feel constrained by using Git only from
                        within a certain toolset; for example, if you are an Android developer acciden-

                        tally using Git to manage your app source code and want to unlock Git in other
                        places in your life as a developer, this book provides a wider vista to learn about
                        the power of Git and GitHub. If you have fallen into using Git for your own

                        projects and are now interested in using Git within a larger community, this
                        book can teach you all about the “social coding” style pioneered and dogfoo-

                        ded by the GitHub team. This book provides a stepping stone for software de-
                        velopers who have used other distributed version control systems and are look-
                        ing for a bridge to using their skills with Git and within a web service like Git-

                        Hub.
                           Like any seasoned developer, automation of your tools is important to you,

                        and this book provides examples of mundane tasks that we then convert them
                        into automated and repeatable processes, and we show how to do this using a

                        variety of languages talking to the GitHub API.
                           If you are unfamiliar with the “command line” this book will give you a firm
                        understanding of how to use it, and we bet you will find great power there. To

                        make this book accessible to everyone, regardless of their editor or operating
                        system, many of the programming samples work within the command line. If

                        you have hated the command line since your father forced you to use it when
                        you were five, this is the perfect book to rekindle a loving relationship with the

                        bash shell.
                           If you absorb not only the technical facets of using GitHub but also pay at-
                        tention to the cultural and ideological changes offered behind the tools, you’ll

                        very likely see a new way of working in the modern age. We focus on these
                        “meta” viewpoints as we discuss the tools themselves to help you see these ex-

                        tra opportunities.
                           Almost every chapter has an associated repository hosted on GitHub where
                        you can review the code discussed. Fork away and take these samples into your

                        own projects and tools!
                           Finally, we help you write testable API backed code. Even the most experi-

                        enced developers often find that writing tests for their code is a challenge, de-
                        spite the massive body of literature connecting quality code with tests. Testing

                        can be especially challenging when you are testing something backed by an
                        API; it requires a different level of thinking than is found in strict unit testing. To




        10