CHAPTER 2: Introduction


                         these chapters are stories about building applications on top of the technolo-

                         gies provided by GitHub. Within these stories you will learn the tradeoffs and
                         considerations you will face when you use the GitHub API. Chapters in this book

                         often cover multiple pieces of the API when appropriate for the story we are
                         telling. We’ve generally tried to focus on a major API section and limit exposure

                         to other pieces as much as possible, but most chapters do need to bring in
                         small pieces of more than one section.

                             • The “cURL” chapter: the chapter you are reading now covers a first look at

                               the API through the command line HTTP client called cURL. We talk a bit
                               about the response format and how to parse it within the command line,
                               and also document authentication.

                             • The “Gist” chapter: covers the Gist API, as well as command line tools and

                               the Ruby language “Octokit” API client.
                             • The “Gollum” chapter: explains usage of the Gollum command line tool

                               and associated Ruby library (gem) which is backed by Grit, the C-
                               language bindings for accessing Git repositories. We also document some

                               details of the Git storage format and how it applies to storing large files
                               inside of a Git repository, and show how to use the git command line

                               tools to play with this information.
                             • The “Search” chapter: we build a GUI search app using Python.

                             • The “Commit Status” chapter: our final chapter documents a relatively

                               new part of the API which documents the interactions between third par-
                               ty tools and your code. This chapter builds an application using C# and

                               the Nancy .NET GitHub API libraries.
                             • The “Jekyll” chapter: if you push a specifically organized repository into

                               GitHub, GitHub will host a fully featured blog, equivalent in most ways to
                               a Wordpress site (well, except for the complexity part). This chapter docu-

                               ments how to format your repository, how to use Markdown within Je-
                               kyll, how to use programmatic looping constructs provided by Liquid
                               Templates, and then shows how to import an entire web site from the In-

                               ternet Archive into the Jekyll format using Ruby. We show how to respect-
                               fully spider a site using caching, a valuable technique when using APIs or

                               third party public information.

                             • The “Android” chapter: in this chapter we create a mobile application tar-
                               geting the Android OS. Our application reads and writes information into
                               a Jekyll repository from the Git Data section of the API. We show how to

                               create user interface tests for Android which verify GitHub API responses
                               using the Calabash UI testing tool.

                             • The “JavaScript” chapter: did you know you can host an entire “single

                               page application” on GitHub? We show how you can build an application



        16