CHAPTER 1: Preface


                       Conventions Used in This Book


                       The following typographical conventions are used in this book:

                       Italic

                          Indicates new terms, URLs, email addresses, filenames, and file extensions.

                       Constant width
                          Used for program listings, as well as within paragraphs to refer to program

                          elements such as variable or function names, databases, data types, envi-
                          ronment variables, statements, and keywords.


                       Constant width bold
                          Shows commands or other text that should be typed literally by the user.

                       Constant width italic

                          Shows text that should be replaced with user-supplied values or by values
                          determined by context.


                            This icon signifies a tip, suggestion, or general note.



                            This icon indicates a warning or caution.



                       Using Code Examples


                       PROD: Please reach out to author to find out if they will be uploading code
                       examples to oreilly.com or their own site (e.g., GitHub). If there is no code
                       download, delete this whole section. If there is, when you email digidist with

                       the link, let them know what you filled in for title_title (should be as close to
                       book title as possible, i.e., learning_python_2e). This info will determine
                       where digidist loads the files.
                          Supplemental material (code examples, exercises, etc.) is available for

                       download at https://github.com/oreillymedia/title_title.
                          This book is here to help you get your job done. In general, if example code is
                       offered with this book, you may use it in your programs and documentation.

                       You do not need to contact us for permission unless you’re reproducing a signif-
                       icant portion of the code. For example, writing a program that uses several

                       chunks of code from this book does not require permission. Selling or distribut-
                       ing a CD-ROM of examples from O’Reilly books does require permission. An-
                       swering a question by citing this book and quoting example code does not re-

                       quire permission. Incorporating a significant amount of example code from this
                       book into your product’s documentation does require permission.




        12