                                               Preface            1








In the 1930s, The Eagle and Child, a pub in Oxford simmered with creativity as
JRR Tolkien and CS Lewis philosophized and created their fantasy worlds.
Heian court life in 11th century Kyoto cradled Murasaki Shibu and produced
The Tale of Genji, Japan’s greatest novel. In the 7th century during the
Umayyad Caliphate of modern day Damascus, glittering Arabic palaces provid-
ed fertile ground for the creation of a new form of poetry, the ghazal (“love po-

ems”) the influence of which still courses through modern Arabic poetry.
  Each era of major creative innovation has been backdropped by a unique
and plumb space where collaboration and creativity flourished. Today, the col-
laborative gathering space for some of the world’s greatest artists (artists who
work as software developers) is a virtual town square, a site called GitHub.


Who You Are

This book should be an interesting source of information for people who have

used Git or GitHub and want to “level-up” their skills related to these technolo-
gies. People without any experience using GitHub or Git should start with an in-
troductory book on these technologies.
  You should have a good familiarity with at least one imperative modern pro-
gramming language. You don’t need to be an expert programmer to read this
book, but having some programming experience and familiarity with at least
one language is essential.

  You should understand the basics of the HTTP protocol. The GitHub team
uses a very standard RESTful approach for its API. You should understand the
difference between a GET request and POST request and what HTTP status
codes mean at the very least.
  Familiariy with web APIs is helpful, although this book simultaneously as-
pires to provide a guide showing how a well thought out, well designed, and
well tested web API creates a foundation for building fun and powerful tools. If





                                                                         9